PARAGRAPHS
==========
TECHNICAL ANALYISIS 
FOR STRATEGIC INTELLIGENCE AND INVESTIGATION DIVISION SYSTEM(SIIDS)  
MANUAL WALK FLOW
Manual walk flow diagram
Steps descriptions
SURVEILLANCE UNIT

TABLES
======
Step #	User	Feature Descriptions	Feature details
Step 1	Intelligence/Surveillance Officer (In charge or manager)	The informer provides information related to tax evasion or fraud to the RRA /Receiving officer.
Source of Case:
Informant, Agent, Whistle-blower;
Referral;
Surveillance
System generated	Informer provides:
Informer Address
Taxpayer address
Informer statement
Informer Signature
Officer Signature
Step 2	Intelligence Officer/Surveillance Officer	The officer captures the informer’s information and prepares an intelligence report.	The officer searches for information from various sources including RRA systems to establish an intelligence report.
ETAX
EBM
LGT
RESW
NIDA
RDB
RLMUA
RICA
FDA
Data Science
....
Step 3	Intelligence Officer/ Surveillance Officer	The intelligence report is sent to the director for Intelligence/Surveillance Unit for initial approval.	Review and Approval (Validate or Return)
Step 4	Director in charge of Intelligence/Surveillance Unit	The intelligence report is sent to the Assistant Commissioner for Strategic Intelligence and Investigation Division for final approval.	Report Review 
Report approval
Send the report to the AC
Step 5	AC for Strategic Intelligence and Investigation Division	the AC for Strategic Intelligence and Investigation Division approves Intelligence report and send it in investigation unit or refer it to another department.	Report Review 
Report approval
Send The report to the Director in Charge of investigation.
Step 6	Director in charge of Investigation unit	The director for investigation unit sends the intelligence report to the investigation officer for deeper investigation.	Send the report to the officer in charge of investigation
Step 7	Investigation officer	Validate the receiving of a case	Investigation officer confirms the reception of case
Step 8	Investigation officer	Preparation an investigation case plan	Customized investigation case plan filled by investigator and submitted to director for investigation. 
Step 9	Director for Investigation	The director approves the plan 	Approval alert appears in the menu of the investigator.
Step 10	Investigation officer	The investigation officer conducts Investigation and prepares Report.
	The officer conducted a thorough investigation:
Consulting different systems
Collecting information from filed.
Attachments of evidences (option to add supporting documents)
Establishment of affidavit of offense,
Makes a final investigation report
Step 11	Investigation officer	The investigation report is sent to the director in charge of the investigation unit for initial approval	Investigation report sent to the director in charge of the investigation unit
Step 12	Director in charge of Investigation Unit	The director for investigation sends the investigation report to the AC in charge of the Strategic Intelligence and Investigation Division for final approval.	Report Review
Report Approval (Validate or return)
Report directed to the AC
Step 13	AC in charge of Strategic Intelligence and Investigation Division	The AC sends the approved investigation report to the director in charge of the investigation to proceed with assessment of Tax Evaded or referring it to other departments for further action.	Report Approval (Validate, referring to other departments or return)
Step 14	Director in charge of Investigation	The director in charge of the investigation sends the investigation report to the officer in charge of the case to proceed with assessment of evaded tax(es).	Return the case to the investigator

Step 15 	The officer in charge of the investigation cases	The officer makes a new declaration for the taxpayer if the tax has not been declared. 
If the tax has already been declared, the officer rectifies that declaration through the ETAX declaration and payment module.	Makes a new declaration if there is not
Revise declaration if there is one
Submit declaration
Step 16	The officer in charge of the investigation cases	The officer in charge of the investigation cases creates a new case in the ETAX system's Investigation Module.	Login in ETAX system /Investigation cases module
Creates a new case through investigation case creation submenu.
Step 17	Enforcement unit	The enforcement unit receives the case from investigation unit.	Case created in investigation case module is automatically submitted in Enforcement module.
Step 18	Enforcement unit	The enforcement unit proceeds with enforcement processes to compel taxpayer to pay their taxes.	Warning Letter
Last warning
 Garnishment (in case)
Step 19	Taxpayer	The taxpayer makes payment, and the bank informs the ETAX payment module about the taxpayer's payment.	Makes a (Full or partial) payment to the bank 
The payment status will be:
Full payment
Partially
No payment  
Step 20	Payment module	The payment Module informs the intelligence officer about taxpayer’s payment.	The Amount paid by taxpayer
Step 21	Intelligence officer	The intelligence officer prepares an internal memo with the attached support documents for the finance department and sends that Memo and supporting documents to the Director for the intelligence unit for initial approval.	Internal memo
Case details
Payment report 
Attached payment evidences.
Step 22	Director for Intelligence unit	The director for intelligence unit review and direct internal memo to AC for Strategic Intelligence and Investigation for final approval.	Review
Approval (validate or return)
Send report to the AC
Step 23	AC for Strategic Intelligence and Investigation Division	The AC approves the internal memo and directs it to the finance department to request the payment of the informer’s reward.	 Review 
 Approval (validate or return) 
Sends Internal memo with attached documents to the Finance department.
Step 24	The entity financial management unit (Finance)	The entity's financial management unit processes the informer's reward payment and signs the bank check.	Checks the taxpayer’s payment
Approve the Informer ‘s payment
Step 25	Entity financial management unit (Finance)	Finance delivers a signed bank check to the intelligence officer. 	Finance signs and gives a cheque to intelligence officer (specific person in charge of payment of informer)
Step 26	Intelligence officer	The intelligence officer makes a cash payment to the informer as their reward.	Gives reward to the informer
Informer sign for reception
Supporting document for payment (Copy ID, copy of received cheque)
Step 27	intelligence officer	An Intelligence Officer prepares status report for the case.	Intelligence Officer updates the case status.
Each case must have one of the below status:
Closed
InProgress
Partial Done
Full Done.
---
Step #	User	Feature Descriptions	Feature details
Step 1	Surveillance team	The surveillance officer maps the areas and target of operations	The surveillance officer:
Identifying locations/smuggling routes
Identifying areas of operations 
Identifying tax evaders
Identifying common smuggled items 
Step 2	Surveillance team	Deploys surveillance officers	Identifying potential surveillance officers 
Appoint the surveillance officers 
Step 3	Surveillance team	Conducts smuggling and tax evasion operations	Searching vehicles and shops
Interrogate the tax evaders
Establish statement (PV)
Seizing smuggled items and issuing seizure notes
Detain the smuggler or tax evader if needed
Step 4	Surveillance team	Reporting 	Report preparation
Report Review
Report approval
Send the report to the PRSO
PRSO submits the report to AC for SI&ID
Step 5	Surveillance team	Motor vehicle/cycle Search and seizure 	Receive request for search warrant
Issuing search warrant
Conducting operation
Seizure motor vehicle/cycle 
Issuing seizure note
Step 6	Surveillance team	Seized goods management	Identify discrepancies between the declaration papers and the physical goods
Prepare and sign a Seizure Note
Give a copy of Seizure Note to the Owner
Hand over seized goods to Store
Establish statement of offence
Submit the Statement of Offence to Taxpayer
Submit the Statement of Offence to Commissioner for Customs
Receiving the Statement of Offence from the Commissioner for Customs
Submit the Statement of Offence to Taxpayer 
---
